No one chooses to lack wisdom. However, 1 Kings 4:29-34 reports God gifting Solomon with wisdom that exceeds the wisdom of “all men.” God even lists the names of two of those wise men who were divinely set aside by God's gift to Solomon. The two wise men whom God identified by name were likely members of the family of “Wise Men” who many years later would travel to Bethlehem to worship the new-born infant Jesus.

Despite that intriguing bit of information, 1 Kings 11 was inspired by God to report that the wisest man in the world turned God’s gift of wisdom and wealth toward his own sinful desires. Solomon finally admitted his sin in Ecclesiastes 1:2ff by stating “Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher, all is vanity.” Solomon concluded his admission of sin in Ecclesiastes 12:13-14 by stating “Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God and keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil.”

That conclusion seems to be the inspired basis for the wise command issued in Proverbs 3:5-6 “Trust in the LORD with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge Him and He shall direct thy path.” However, Solomon’s wise command is too often set aside by sincere “pastor teachers” who were trained, in turn, by professors working from the same method — a method that “leans unto thine own sectarian understandings” to hermeneutically construct belief systems explaining what God supposedly meant to do and say.

The pattern I keep observing is that Bible school professors teach conflicting opinions about what God meant to say rather than follow the model of 2Timothy 2:2 “And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also.” It has always been a “mystery” that God deliberately intended for “all men” to be conflicted by creating an environment containing “the god of this world” and an environment of “evil and death” and then declaring in Genesis 1:31 “behold, it was very good.”

God’s Purpose-For-Creation was deliberately hidden from “all” humans simply because every God believer — including me and you and Adam and Eve, as well as the leadership of “God’s chosen people” — would strenuously object to any Purpose that included the crucifixion of “the LORD of Glory.” The Scriptural justification for that phenomenon is found in 1Corinthians 2:8.

A high IQ is distinct from God’s gracious gift of wisdom. For example, I literally heard a high IQ “pastor teacher” publicly read 2Peter 1:8 from his pulpit “For if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ,” followed by his own “understanding” that “giving all diligence to believe” is required before an omnipotent God can fulfil His 2Peter 1:4 “promise that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust.” Sincere, Bible-school-trained “pastor teachers” can end up preaching their own assumptions about what God really meant to say.

That same “pastor teacher leans unto his own understanding” to teach the proof text that John 3:16 requires “whosoever to believe in Him” before “whosoever” can be “born again of the Spirit,” even though the Apostle John was literally reporting Jesus answering a question asked by Niccodemus about “entering the second time into his mother’s womb to be born?” Jesus observed that Niccodemus was “a ruler of the Jews” who did not yet know the John 3:6 axiom “that which is born of the Flesh is Flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit.”

However, God’s inspired Words in John 3 literally teach “whosoever” that “salvation is by grace through faith that is not your own effort lest you should be tempted to boast,” as verified in Ephesians 2:8-9. Yet many “pastor teachers” require “belief in Him” from those who are “Spiritually dead in sin and thus incapable of believing anything.” They proof text John 3:16 to teach that God requires “belief” before a sovereign and omnipotent God can “predestine dead in trespasses and sin” humans to no longer be “dead” by receiving God's gift of “everlasting life” as the guaranteed outcome of being “born again of the Spirit.”

Merriam-Webster.com defines “proof text” as “a Scriptural passage adduced as proof for a theological doctrine, belief, or principle.” Thus, that “pastor teacher” has “adduced a Scriptural passage” to mean something that literally conflicts with the answer “God’s only beloved Son” gave to the question asked by “Niccodemus.”

Preaching that leans on its own understanding is always “Christian preaching that devalues Scripture.” That’s why the philosophical basis for this book is WHY > WHAT.

The Christian religion is characterized by sectarian affiliations and denominations which conflict with each of their sectarian rivals. Even so-called “Independent” churches affiliate to conflict with rival “Independent” churches. The mere existence of that conflict forces me to ask WHY a sovereign God created anything at all when God omnisciently knew that sectarian “pastor teachers” were going to “lean unto their own understanding” to persuade church attendees to “trust” a conflicted sectarian belief system “with all their heart,” even though every such system conflicts with every rival system.

The text of Romans 12:3 “commands” us to “not think of ourselves more highly than we ought to think.” Yet each Bible scholar tends to “think” his own “understanding” is superior to the “understanding” of every rival.

It is axiomatic that knowing WHY anything happens always yields more “understanding” than any opinion about WHAT may have happened. In other words, WHY > WHAT.

For example, USA Judges tend to sentence criminals based on WHY a crime was committed, not merely WHAT crime is being judged. Similarly, Bible scholars too often overlook this axiom by “leaning unto their own understanding” about WHAT God really meant to say, rather than asking WHY God said anything at all. They can be observed “Trusting their own understandings” about WHAT God may have inspired to be written, even when those “understandings” conflict with the “understandings” of rival scholars.

Ephesians 4:11 teaches “God gifts pastor teachers to the saints till we all come in the unity of the faith.” However, “church attending saints” have never been “unified” since Acts 9:15, when Saul was divinely appointed as an Apostle “to bear my name before the Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel.” 1Corinthians 1:10ff is irrefutable evidence that “church attending saints” have never been “unified in the faith.” Every conflicted sectarian doctrine was hermeneutically constructed by Bible scholars who sincerely believe they “Trust in the LORD with all their heart.” That very sincerity was “predestined” by “the determinant counsel and foreknowledge of God” (Acts 2:23) “from before the foundation of the world” (Rev 13:8). God deliberately hid His Purpose from God believers.

Conflicting belief systems are taught by sincere Bible school professors who have not yet been given the wisdom to recognize the limits of their own understanding.

Genesis 2:9 reports that both “good and evil” Bible scholars are avatars of “the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.” The cause-and-effect intrinsic to time-and-space has left modern Bible scholars lacking God’s wisdom. The observable evidence suggests that Adam and Eve, too, were deliberately “made” by an omniscient and immutable (i.e., unchanging) God to lack that wisdom.

Romans 3:23 teaches “all have sinned and come short of the glory of God.” Even so, it is observably obvious that only humans are capable of sin. Germs, animals, and all other life forms created by God are never guilty of sin, even when they kill and eat humans. Romans 3:23 also applies to Adam and Eve, despite many modern Bible scholars teaching that Adam and Eve were created sinless before Eve was tempted by Satan to sin. That view leads to a surprising conclusion: that an immutable God changed His immutable mind because “the god of this world” — whom that same immutable God had previously created — had literally obeyed his Creator by testing Eve. And it is plain that Eve failed the test.

Some Bible schools deliberately choose to be unaccredited, but accreditation never fixes non-Biblical hermeneutics. Even with accreditation, every Bible school teaches hermeneutical rules that conflict with the rules taught in rival schools. Time and again, Bible schools justify their belief systems by “leaning unto sectarian understandings” about WHAT God really meant to say, rather than teaching WHY an immutable God said anything at all.

Our own conflicted “understandings” are always “Trusted with all our heart” to be Scripturally correct, even when they conflict with all our sectarian rivals. Conflict between rivals always points to an “understanding” that is a hermeneutical interpretation (i.e., an opinion) about WHAT God really meant to say, rather than a “Trusting” exposition of the text that explains WHY an omniscient God inspired anything at all to be written.

Merriam-Webster.com defines “hermeneutics” as “the study of the methodological principles of interpretation (as of the Bible).” And almost invariably, one person’s hermeneutical “understanding” conflicts with another’s.

And yet an omniscient God declares that all creation was “very good” exactly as He intended, because everything was created to accomplish God’s Purpose-For-Creation — there never has been any other Purpose. It should not surprise us to learn that an immutable God knew exactly what He was doing. Matthew 24:6 teaches that an omniscient and immutable God deliberately created universal “Wars and rumors of war.” Your own “pastor teacher” has learned a particular version of sectarian belief simply because an omniscient and immutable God intends for all Bible schools to teach proficiency in sectarian (i.e., conflicted) hermeneutics rather than proficient methods for “rightly dividing” the context of WHAT an omniscient and immutable God literally inspired to be written. Bible schools rarely major on 2Timothy 2:2, which teaches “the things that thou hast heard of me, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also.” Only a few major on expositional preaching.

However, even Bible schools that major on expositional preaching are observed “understanding” doctrines that conflict with rival Bible schools’ “understandings.” Every hermeneutical “understanding” reflects a sectarian (i.e., conflicted) opinion about WHAT God really meant to say.

The title of this book is Christian preaching that devalues Scripture. The outcome of that kind of preaching is always the establishment and maintenance of conflicted affiliations of sectarian churches. The title describes every instance when a “pastor teacher” applies a hermeneutically interpreted Biblical proof-text. And yet an omniscient God includes Christian preaching that devalues Scripture when He evaluates everything He has created as “very good,” simply because, without exception, everything was created exactly as Creator God intended.

Without exception, every instance of theological conflict is the outcome of a hermeneutical opinion about WHY God created anything. And conflicting opinions (i.e., “understandings”) about WHY God created anything are always derived from a hermeneutical analysis of WHAT God literally said that He did.

However, the context of Isaiah 48:6 teaches that God’s inspired Words were deliberately “hidden” from God’s chosen people. Similarly, the inspired context of Ephesians 3:3-9 teaches that God’s Purpose-For-Creation was “hidden” from everyone until AD60, when God inspired the Epistle to the Ephesians.

Sectarian conflict is evidence that God’s Purpose-For-Creation was especially “hidden” from Bible school professors. The alternative to “leaning unto thine own understanding” is always to “Trust in the LORD with all thine heart” — to trust that an omniscient God immutably knew “before the foundation of the world” the reason WHY He created anything at all, including the reason WHY He “predestined” Adam and Eve to “lustfully sin” (Gen 3:6 and James 1:14-15) so they could be evicted from the Garden of Eden.

It is conceivable that some sectarian opinions come close to being consistent with God’s Purpose-For-Creation. However, every “born of the flesh” human described in John 3:6 is temporary and disposable, “appointed once to die, but after this the judgment” (Heb 9:27). So everyone who is “born of the flesh” is eternally precluded from knowing the reason WHY God created anything at all — unless an omniscient God deliberately chooses to tell us. WHY God created anything is always more informative than any hermeneutical opinion about WHAT God did, or any opinion about WHAT God expects you and me to do. “Leaning unto thine own understanding” is the reason WHY you and I find ourselves in conflict with fellow believers.

That conclusion comes from observing the Christian religion function, at times, like a marketing agency for persuading and selling conflicted sectarian belief systems. The philosophical axiom is WHY > WHAT. Please meditate on that axiom as it applies to your own sectarian system of beliefs.

Our Bible scholars rarely cite Scripture to explain WHY a sovereign and omniscient God allows one sectarian belief system to conflict with another. Ephesians 3:3 & 3:9 report that a sovereign God “mysteriously hid” that knowledge from virtually everyone before AD60, when the Epistle to the Ephesians was inspired to be written. Even so, each conflicted belief system was included in God’s Genesis 1:31 evaluation that all creation was “very good” exactly as He intended. The reality is that God created sectarian conflict “to the intent that” His Purpose-For-Creation would be fulfilled without risking sabotage (1Cor 2:8).

Some Bible scholars teach that an immutable God changes His mind after “dead in trespasses and sin humans” have been persuaded to make volitional free-will decisions to no longer be “dead.” Yet an omniscient God asserts in Genesis 1:31 that every free-will decision made by “dead humans” is “very good,” simply because invalid assumptions about volitional free will are exactly what God intended when He omnisciently created temporary and disposable humans “who are dead in trespasses and sin” (Eph 2:1).

I have literally heard Bible scholars “leaning unto their own understanding” about WHAT God said He did, in order to teach that God did everything “for His own Glory.” God’s inspired Words do teach that God is Glorious. Nevertheless, those scholars overlook Ephesians 4:11ff, that God gifts “the saints with pastor teachers till we all come in the unity of the faith.” Every Bible school teaches homiletics that, in practice, keep “church attending saints” from ever being unified.

“Trusting in the LORD with all thine heart” will immediately resolve the conflict that marks our own sectarian belief systems. However, “Trusting in the LORD with all thine heart” is the outcome, rather than the reason, anyone is “born again of the Spirit.” “Dead in trespasses and sin” humans are “mysteriously called and elect” to salvation (2Pet 1:10). Those names were “written in the Lamb’s book of life before the foundation of the world” (Rev 13:8) — that is, before believing was even possible.

The fact is that “the Lamb’s book of life” was written “before the foundation of the world.” God DID NOT create anything so that sinful humans could “come in the unity of the faith.” God’s own inspired Words inform us in Isaiah 6:10 and Matthew 13:11ff that NEITHER God NOR Jesus intends for EVERY human to “come in the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God.” And yet an omniscient God declared in Genesis 1:31 that His “command” to Isaiah was “very good,” even though it contradicts our own sectarian opinion.

The fact that God DOES NOT WANT EVERY human to “come in the unity of the faith” has always been a “mystery” for “pastor teachers” who have been taught that 2Peter 3:9 proves God is “not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance.” If a sovereign God really WANTED EVERY human to repent and be saved, then that is exactly how it would happen.

However, that reading of 2Peter 3:9 does not hold together, simply because these “pastor teachers” are being taught to overlook that 2Peter is written “to them that have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Saviour Jesus Christ” (2Pet 1:1).

Peter’s 2nd Epistle teaches that God deliberately limits His “faithful promise” of “calling and election” to the “few who enter at the narrow gate” (Matt 7:14), simply because “the Lord is not slack concerning his promise <to the called and elect> as some men such as the Scoffers who are identified in 2Peter 3:4 count slackness, but is longsuffering to us <who are called and elect>, not willing that any <of us who are called and elect> should perish, but that all <who are called and elect> should come to repentance” (this editing depends on the literal context of 2Peter 3:9).

Incidentally, Matthew 7:13-23 of the Sermon on the Mount reports that “many who address Jesus as LORD” will be told to “depart from me, ye that work iniquity.” The sobering reality is that “many” Bible-school-trained “pastor teachers” will not be allowed to enter Heaven — a reality that contradicts “many” understandings of what a sovereign God inspired to be written.

Those same scholars also proof-text John 3:16 to read “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that <any dead person who has been intellectually persuaded to> believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life.” That reading cannot hold up, because every human “dies and perishes” just as an immutable (i.e., unchangeable) God intended when He “predestined Adam and Eve to be sinners,” both “appointed once to die, but after this the judgment” (Heb 9:27). Ephesians 2:8-9 confirms this specifically and intentionally, because the intellectual “work” of “believing in him” has never saved anyone. Salvation has always been “the gift of God. Not of works, lest any man who is dead in trespasses and sin should boast.” According to Merriam-Webster.com, every “proof-text” is “a Scriptural passage adduced as proof for a theological doctrine, belief, or principle.” So every “proof-text” is, in the end, an attempt to “adduce” a hermeneutical “understanding” of what an immutable God supposedly intended to say.

The Scriptural alternative to every “proof-text” is to “Trust in the LORD with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and He shall direct thy paths” (Prov 3:5-6).

Conflict with rival opinions is itself evidence that our own sectarian methods for hermeneutically interpreting (i.e., altering) God’s immutable Words amount to “leaning unto our own understanding.”

Please meditate on the Scriptural command to “lean not unto thine own understanding” (Prov 3:5). Did “the LORD” really inspire Solomon to command every human — including both me and you — to “lean not unto thine own understanding”? Please be aware that interpretations are never the outcome of “rightly dividing the Word of Truth.”

In the past, I interpreted Proverbs 3:5 consistent with sectarian doctrinal beliefs. More recently I was led by God’s Spirit to “Study to shew myself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth” (2Tim 2:15). That study led me to write this book about Christian preaching that devalues Scripture. I finally discovered that in AD60 God inspired His Purpose-For-Creation to be revealed in Ephesians 3:10.

That “Study” taught me to “Trust in the LORD with all my heart” about the reason WHY God created anything, “to the intent that now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God,” as described in Ephesians 3:10.

Please be aware that Ephesians 3:10 specifically sets aside any so-called “Great Commission” for establishing or maintaining “the church,” simply because Jesus said in Matthew 16:18 that “He would build His church and the gates of hell would not prevail against it.” Please consider that the “Great Commission” at the end of Matthew 28 was directed to only “eleven” disciples, so that Jesus could divinely command them to “Teach them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you.” Disciples other than the “eleven” were taught only “some things.”

It ought to be intuitively obvious that Matthew 28 has nothing to do with either “winning souls” (Prov 11:30) or establishing and maintaining “churches.” So WHY do “pastor teachers” teach otherwise? That question presses against the belief systems taught in Bible schools. The reality is that God’s Ephesians 3:10 Purpose-For-Creation largely passes over all temporary and disposable “dead in trespasses and sin” humans, except as they assemble together into a conflicted sectarian “church” (i.e., an “ἐκκλησία”).

Some of the “born of the flesh” humans who assemble into an “ἐκκλησία” were named in “the Lamb’s book of life before the foundation of the world,” but the names of mere “ἐκκλησία” attenders have often been notably absent from “the Lamb’s book of life from the foundation of the world.”

The remainder of this book is my analysis of God’s Purpose-For-Creation with respect to “the church,” which was “mysteriously” not even hinted at when “In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.”

WHY did God wait until AD60 to inspire the Apostle Paul to write the Epistle to the Ephesians that describes God’s purpose for “the church”?

WHY didn’t God tell everyone about His purpose for “the church” “in the beginning,” when He was creating everything — including a “sinful” Adam and Eve who volitionally “lusted after” food provided by a God who is “good all the time; all the time, God is good”?

Nevertheless, it seems clear that God deliberately created temporary and disposable humans to lack wisdom. The religious leaders of “God’s chosen people,” as well as Satan and his demons, were denied knowledge of God’s Purpose-For-Creation, because “none of the princes of this world knew: for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory” (1Cor 2:8). The “crucifixion of the Lord of glory” had always been God’s Purpose-For-Creation “from before the foundation of the world.”

The reality is that no one who claims to be “born again of the Spirit” would ever vote to “crucify the Lord of glory.” And yet the crucifixion of “the Lord of glory” is exactly what God intended when He created everything consistent with His Ephesians 3:10 Purpose Statement. That is WHY an omniscient God had to “hide the mystery” from everyone until after Jesus had been crucified and after “the church” had been established by the Apostle Paul. Otherwise, “the Lord of glory” would never have been crucified, simply because every God believer would have voted against it.

You and I — and every other human who is “born again of the Spirit” (John 3:6) — would have sabotaged God’s Purpose-For-Creation by voting against the crucifixion of “the Lord of glory.” Please meditate on that painful reality as you continue reading.
