It is impossible for humans to choose to be wise because wisdom can neither be increased nor decreased. Wisdom is never the measurment of IQ.  Wisdom is always gifted by God. 

Withinn that context, 1Kings 4:29-34 reports God gifting Solomon with wisdom that exceeds the wisdom of “all men.”  God even lists the names of four men whose wisdom was divinely demoted to a position of wisdom deficiency with respect to Solomon's gift of wisdom. 

One of those demoted men is identified as an Egyptian but the other three seem to be members of the "Wise Man" family simply because they each had the same father.  Matthew 2 reports that many generations later other members of the "Wise Man" family traveled "from the east" in order to worship the new-born Jesus.  Otherwixe, the identification of "Wise Men" cannot be "understood" as a Biblical issue. 

Despite speculations about "Wise Men from the east", 1Kings 11 reports that Solomon abused God’s gift of wisdom and wealth by living an extravagantly sinful life style. Solomon eventually confessed his sin in Ecclesiastes 1:2ff when he wrote “Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher, all is vanity.”  Solomon ended his confession of sin in Ecclesiastes 12:13-14 by stating “Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God and keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil.”

Solomon's "acknowleshment" of a sinful life style seems to have been used by God to motivate Solomon to command each of us in Proverbs 3:5-6 to “Trust in the LORD with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge Him and He shall direct thy path.” Solomon's wise conclusion to "In all thy ways acknowledge Him and He shall direct thy path" was perhaps the only reason why God gifted wisdom to Solomon.  

However, modern God belivers disobey Solomon’s wise command every time they choose to train for ministry at a particular Bible school. The reality is that every Bible school teaches a hermeneutical system of interpretation which conflicts with the hermeneutical system being taught at rival Bible schools. The Christian religion is characterized by conflicted hermeneutical interpretations of God's Word which invariably result in Christian preaching that devalues Scripture. Yet in Genesis 1:31 God declares "behold it was very good" simply because everything was created exactly as God intended.  

Accordingly, this internet web document calls Bible believing “pastor teachers” to use the natural style for communicating the literature of God's  Words (i.e., exposition) and to do it just as if you really believe Scripture is the inspired Word of God. 

Bible schools are deceitfully named because no Bible school actually teaches the inspired Words recorded in a Bible. Every Bible school teaches a conflicted method for hermeneuticaly interpreting Biblical text rather than teach the inspired Word of God. Every Bible school conflicts with rival Bible schools.  There are no exceptions.  

If Bible believing “pastor teachers” were to actually teach the inspired Word of God then Church attendees would literally learn the Words which God inspired rather than learn the hermeneutically conflicted theological opinions being taught by rival Bible professors who teach in rival Bible schools. Bible believing “pastor teachers” ought to obey Solomon's wise command to "lean not unto your own understanding" of conflicted sectarian theological opinions about that which an immutable God omnisciently meant to say if only He had simply stopped to think about what He was going to say before He inspired anything to be written.

The observable evidence reveals that rival Bible school professors teach conflicted opinions about that which God really meant to say rather than teach "the things thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also" as the Apostle Paul taught to Timothy in 2Timothy 2:2. 

Preaching sectarian opinions and conflicted hermeneutical interpretations are never God's choice according to Proverbs 3:5-6 and 2Timothy 2:2 and yet that is the most common preaching style taught to  Bible school trained "pastor teachers." 

The Apostle Paul also revealed the “mystery” in Ephesians 1:4-9 that God purposely created everything “According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him. In love having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace; wherein he hath abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence; having made known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure which he hath purposed in himself.”  

Some modern "pastor teachers" are offended by the English word "predestinated" in verse 5 of Ephesians 1:4-9. However, that word was translated from "προορίζω", Strong's G4309, and defined as "from <G4253> (pro) and <G3724> (horizo); to limit in advance, i.e. (figurative) predetermine :- determine before, ordain, predestinate." Strong's definition suggests the Greek word was translated correctly thus modern "pastor teachers" are unjustly offended.

The same Apostle Paul reported in 1Corinthians 1:12 that he observed church attendees believing that sectarian preaching actually taught God's Truth.  However, God purposely caused their invalid belief by creating an environment containing “the god of this world” as well as containing “evil and death” and then declaring in Genesis 1:31 “behold, it was very good” simply because everything was created exactly as a sovereign and immutable  God intended. It is incredible to finally realize that God literally intends for sectarian church attendees to be conflicted. Sectarian conflict literally fulfills God's Purpose-For-Creation as defined in Ephesians 3:10. 

Those who believe conflicted sectarian doctrine typically also chant "God is good all the time; all the time, God is good."  However, God's Word tells us a "good" God deliberately eliminated an entire population by killing them with a flood.  If "God is good all the time" then God's definition of "good" differs from the wisdom deficient human definition of "good" and yet a differing definition of "good" literally causes God's Purpose-For-Creation to be fulfilled consistent with Ephesians 3:10.  

Those who claim to be Christian are often offended when someone like me talks about the undeniable evidence of Bible school taught doctrinal conflict. But Ephesians 3:10 is clear that God's Purpose-For-Creation requires "pastor teachers" to teach church attendees to "Trust conflicted sectarian belief systems with all their heart." In other words, God intends that the Proverbs 3:5-6 command to "lean not unto your own understanding" will be disobeyed by those who attend Christian churches simply because the disobdience of church attenders demonstrates God's "manifold wisdom of redemption to the principalities and powers in the heavenlies." 

Please meditate on the reality that universally obeying Solomon's Proverbs 3:5 command to "lean not unto thine own understanding" whould eliminate any need for the Revelation 13:8 announcement that "the book of life of the Lamb" and "the Lamb that was slain" where both established by a sovereign and immutably omniscient God "from the foundation of the world."

Yet without exception belief in conflicted sectarian doctrine is the outcome of every Bible school educational system.  No one can deny that reality. Yet that’s exactly the way a sovereign God planned it. Instead of "Trusting" conflicted doctrines every God believer ought to simply "Trust in the LORD with all thine heart." Then conflicted sectarian doctrines would no longer be a problem. But that's not what God wants to happen. 

Ephesians 3:10 is written "To the intent that now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God." According to Matthew 13:24ff "the church" is composed of both "wheat and tares." "The wheat" are those whom "the manifold wisdom of God has predestinated  unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself."  "The tares" are those who "will be gathered and bound into bundles to be burned." And in Matthew 16:18 Jesus promises "I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it."  The reality is that, "The Lamb who was slain before the foundation of the world" is faithfully in agreement with God's Purpose-For-Creation being accomplished. According to Ephesians 2:8-9 the faithfulness of Jesus is the faith by which humans are saved.  2Peter 3:10 reports that after God's Purpose-For-Creation is finally accomplished then "the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up." Thus, it is obvious that God's Purpose-For-Creation never promised "everlasting life" to humans.  According to Hebrews 9:27 every "born of the flesh" human is "appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment."  Thus, every "born of the flesh" human is temporary and disposable.  God never wanted everyone to be saved as is falsely claimed by many Bible school trained "pastor teathers." Rather, everything was created to educate "the principalities and powers in the heavenlies."  

The words of the hymn "When the Saints Are Gathered Home" written by James Rowe in 1914 teaches the Scriptural notion that "time shall be no more" simply because God no longer has any need for the completely void container of time-and-space He created in Genesis 1. Search the web for that title if you are not familiar with James Rowe's Christian hymn. 

It is extremely difficult for virtually all God believers to accept as Truth but Ephesians 3:9 teaches that God’s Purpose-For-Creation was deliberately "hidden" from "all" humans including me and you and Adam and Eve as well as the leadership of "God's chosen people." If God had not hidden “the mystery” then every God believer like me and you would strenuously object to any Purpose that included the crucifixion of “the LORD of Glory.”  The text of 1Corinthians 2:8 confirms that God deliberately and absolutely did not want to happen.

Being born with an inherited DNA that has a high IQ is distinct from God’s gracious gift of wisdom. 
For example, I literally heard a high IQ “pastor teacher” publicly read 2Peter 1:8 from his pulpit “For if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ” followed by his wisdom deficient “understanding” that “giving all diligence to believe” is an absolute requirment before an immutable and omnipotent God can fulfil His 2Peter 1:4 “exceeding great and precious promises: that by these promises ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust.”  God believing but wisdom deficient Bible school trained “pastor teachers” are preaching opinionated assumptions about that which God really meant to say rather than preaching consistent with 2Timothy 2:2.

God's Word makes it intuitively obvious that a very popular high IQ but wisdom deficient “pastor teacher" "leans unto his own understanding” to teach the proof text that John 3:16 requires “whosoever to believe in Him” before “whosoever” can be “born again of the Spirit” even though the Apostle John was merely quoting Jesus answering a question asked by Nicodemus about “entering the second time into his mother’s womb to be born again?” 

Jesus accused Nicodemus of being “a ruler of the Jews” who didn’t know the John 3:6 axiom “that which is born of the Flesh is Flesh, and that which is born of the Spirit is Spirit.” That same accusation applies to a very popular high IQ but wisdom deficient “pastor teacher" who faithfully preaches every Sunday to a large crowd of church attendees as well as to web streamers who believe they are hearing God's Truth. In most cases they are actually hearing God's Truth except for those times he lapses into "leaning unto his own understanding."

God’s inspired Words in John 3 literally teach “whosoever” that “salvation is by grace through faith that is not your own effort lest you should be tempted to boast (i.e., testify) about your salvation” as taught in the God inspired words of Ephesians 2:8-9. 

By contrast, wisdom deficient “pastor teachers” typically require “belief in Him” by those who are “Spiritually dead in trespasses and sin." But "dead people" are incapable of believing anything. Thus, wisdom deficient “pastor teachers” are proof texting John 3:16 to teach church attendees the incorrect doctrine that God requires “belief” before a sovereign and omnipotent God can “predestine dead in trespasses and sin” humans to no longer be “dead” by receiving God's gift of “everlasting life” as the guaranteed outcome of being “born again of the Spirit.”  That proof text is actually a "lie" as reported in Romans 3:4.

Merriam-Webster.com defines “proof text” as “a Scriptural passage adduced as proof for a theological doctrine, belief, or principle.” Thus, that wisdom deficient “pastor teacher” has “adduced a Scriptural passage” to mean something that literally conflicts with the answer by “God’s beloved Son” to the question asked by Nicodemus.

Wisdom deficient preaching is always “Christian preaching that devalues Scripture.” That philosophical reality is logically written as WHY > WHAT.

The Christian religion is characterized by sectarian affiliations and denominations which conflict with every sectarian rival. Even so-called “Independent” churches affiliate to conflict with rival “Independent” churches.  However, the mere existence of sectarian conflict forces me to question WHY a sovereign God created anything at all when God omnisciently knew WHAT every "born of the flesh" human was going to do. God knew "pastor teachers" were going to “lean unto their own understanding” to persuade church attendees to “trust” a conflicted sectarian belief system “with all their heart” even though every sectarian belief system conflicts with every rival sectarian belief system.

The text of Romans 12:3 “commands” us to “not think of ourselves more highly than we ought to think.” But every wisdom deficient Bible scholar “thinks” his own “understanding” is superior to the “understanding” of every rival Bible scholar.

It is axiomatic that knowing WHY anything happens always results in more “understanding” than any opinion about WHAT may have literally happened. In other words, WHY > WHAT. 

For example, USA Judges sentence criminals based on WHY a crime was committed despite WHAT crime is being judged. By contrast, wisdom deficient Bible scholars are taught to ignore WHY > WHAT by “leaning unto their own understanding” about WHAT God really meant to say rather than ask WHY God said anything at all. Bible scholars are observed “Trusting their own understandings” about WHAT God may have inspired to be written even when those “understandings” conflict with the “understandings” of rival Bible scholars.

Ephesians 4:11 teaches “God gifts pastor teachers to the saints till we all come in the unity of the faith.” However, “church attending saints” have never been “unified” since Acts 9:15 when Saul was divinely appointed as an Apostle “to bear my name before the Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel.” 1Corinthians 1:10ff is irrefutable evidence that “church attending saints” have always been conflicted since “the church" was initially organized. “Unity” has never characterized "the church." Every conflicted sectarian doctrine is hermeneutically manufactured by wisdom deficient Bible scholars who pretend to “Trust in the LORD with all their heart.” That kind of wisdom deficiency was “predestined” by “the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God” (Acts 2:23) before “In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.” 

God deliberately hid His Purpose-For-Creation from God believers. Thus, God believers can never know God's Purpose-For-Creation unless they first "understand" that WHY > WHAT.  That seems to be a very big problem for "many" God believing "pastor teachers" (Matthew 7:22).  

Conflicted belief systems are taught by sectarian Bible school professors who were not given enough wisdom to recognize their own wisdom deficiency.

Genesis 2:9 reveals both “good and evil” Bible scholars are avatars of “The tree of the knowledge of good and evil.”  The cause-and-effect that is intrinsic within time-and-space has resulted in all modern Bible scholars being wisdom deficient. The evidence of the Genesis account of Creation  reveals that Adam and Eve were deliberately "made" to be wisdom deficient by an omniscient and immutable (i.e., unchanging) God.

Within that context, Romans 3:23 teaches “all have sinned and come short of the glory of God.” Nevertheless, only humans are capable of sin. Microbes, animals, and all other life forms that God created are never guilty of sin even when they kill and eat humans. Romans 3:23 applies to Adam and Eve despite modern wisdom deficient Bible scholars teaching that Adam and Eve were created to be sinless before Eve was tempted by Satan. In other words, modern wisdom deficient Bible scholars teach the incredible doctrinal error that an immutable God changed His immutable mind simply because “the god of this world” literally obeyed God by testing Eve just as he tested Jesus in Matthew 4:1ff. God's Word is clear that Eve failed the test by sinning while Jesus passed that test by being "yet without sin."  

Some Bible schools deliberately choose to be unaccredited, but accreditation never fixes non-Biblical hermeneutics. Despite accreditation, every Bible school teaches hermeneutical rules and methods which conflict with the hermeneutical rules and methods taught in rival Bible schools. Without exception Bible schools justify their belief systems by hermeneutically “leaning unto sectarian understandings” about WHAT God really meant to say rather than teach WHY an immutable God said anything at all.

Your own conflicted “understandings” are always “Trusted with all your heart” to be Scripturally correct despite conflicting with the “understandings” of your sectarian rivals. Conflict between rival sectarians always indicates an “understanding” which is rooted in a hermeneutical interpretation (i.e., an opinion) about WHAT God really meant to say rather than “Trusting” an exposition of text that explains WHY an omniscient God inspired anything at all to be written.

Merriam-Webster.com defines “hermeneutics” as “the study of the methodological principles of interpretation (as of the Bible).” Without exception your own hermeneutical “understanding” methodically conflicts with rival hermeneutical “understandings.”

And yet an omniscient God declares that all creation was “very good” exactly as He intended because everything was created to accomplish God’s Purpose-For-Creation -- there never has been any other Purpose. It should not surprise us to learn that an immutable God knew exactly what He was doing. Matthew 24:6 teaches that an omniscient and immutable God deliberately created universal “Wars and rumors of war.” Your preferred Bible school trained “pastor teacher” has learned a conflicted version of sectarian belief simply because an omniscient and immutable God actually intends for all Bible schools to teach proficiency in sectarian (i.e., conflicted) hermeneutics rather than teach proficient methods for “rightly dividing” the context of WHAT an omniscient and immutable God literally inspired to be written. Bible schools never major on 2Timothy 2:2 which teaches “the things that thou hast heard of me, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also.” Only unique Bible schools major on expositional preaching.

However, even Bible schools that major on expositional preaching are observed hermeneutically “understanding” doctrines which conflict with rival Bible school hermeneutical “understandings.”  Exposition is always distinct from hermeneutically interpreting. Every hermeneutical “understanding” reflects a sectarian (i.e., conflicted) opinion about WHAT God really meant to say.

The title of this document is Christian preaching that devalues Scripture. The outcome of that kind of preaching is always the establishment and maintenance of conflicted affiliations of sectarian churches. Thes document describes “pastor teachers” manufacturing hermeneutically interpreted proof-texts. And yet an omniscient God includes Christian preaching that devalues Scripture when God evaluates everything He has created as being “very good” simply because without exception everything was created exactly as intended by Creator God.

Without exception every instance of theological conflict is the outcome of a wisdom deficient hermeneutical opinion about WHY God created anything. And conflicted opinions (“understandings”) about WHY God created anything are always derived from a hermeneutical analysis of WHAT God literally said that He did. 

However, the context of Isaiah 48:6 teaches that God’s inspired Words were deliberately “hidden” from God’s chosen people. Similarly, the inspired context of Ephesians 3:3-9 teaches that God’s Purpose-For-Creation was “hidden” from everyone until AD60 when God inspired the Epistle to the Ephesians.  

The pervasiveness of sectarian conflict is proof that God’s Purpose-For-Creation was especially “hidden” from Bible school professors. The alternative to “leaning unto thine own understanding” is always “Trust in the LORD with all thine heart” that an omniscient God immutably knew “before the foundation of the world” the reason WHY He created anything at all including the reason WHY an omniscient God “predestined” Adam and Eve to “lustfully sin” (Gen 3:6 and James 1:14-15) so that God could evict them from the Garden of Eden.

It is conceivable that some sectarian opinions approach being consistent with God’s Purpose-For-Creation. However, every “born of the flesh” human described in John 3:6 is temporary and disposable being deliberately “appointed once to die, but after this the judgment” (Hebrews 9:27). Thus, everyone who is “born of the flesh” is eternally precluded from knowing the reason WHY God created anything at all unless an omniscient God deliberately chooses to inform us of the reason WHY anything was created. WHY God created anything is always more informative than any hermeneutical opinion about WHAT God did or any opinion about WHAT God expects you and me to do. “Leaning unto thine own understanding” is the reason WHY you and I are characterized by conflict with every sectarian rival who claims to be a God believer.

That conclusion results from observing the Christian religion as a marketing agency for persuading and selling conflicted sectarian belief systems. The philosophical axiom is WHY > WHAT. Please meditate on that philosophical axiom as it applies to your preferred sectarian system of conflicted beliefs.

Your preferred Bible scholar never cites Scripture to explain WHY a sovereign and omniscient God allows your own sectarian belief system to conflict with rival belief systems. Ephesians 3:3 & 3:9 reports a sovereign God “mysteriously hid” that knowledge from virtually everyone before AD60 when the epistle to the Ephesians was inspired to be written. Nevertheless, each conflicted belief system was included in God’s Genesis 1:31 evaluation that all creation was “very good” exactly as God intended it to be. The reality is that God created sectarian conflict “to the intent that” God’s Purpose-For-Creation will be fulfilled without risking sabotage (1Cor 2:8).

Some wisdom deficient Bible scholars teach that an immutable God changes His mind after “dead in trespasses and sin humans” have been persuaded to make volitional-free-will decisions to no longer be “dead.” Yet an omniscient God asserts in Genesis 1:31 that every free-will decision made by “dead humans” is “very good” simply because invalid assumptions about volitional-free-will are exactly what God intended when God omnisciently created temporary and disposable humans “who are dead in trespasses and sin” (Eph 2:1).

I have literally heard wisdom deficient Bible scholars “leaning unto their own understanding” about WHAT God said He did so they could teach that God did everything “for His own Glory.” It cannot be denied that God’s inspired Words teach that God is Glorious. Nevertheless, Bible scholars ignore Ephesians 4:11ff that God gifts “the saints with pastor teachers till we all come in the unity of the faith.” Every Bible school teaches homiletics that literally prevent church attending saints from ever being unified. 

“Trusting in the LORD with all thine heart” will immediately fix the conflict that characterizes your own wisdom deficient sectarian belief system. However, “Trusting in the LORD with all thine heart” is the outcome rather than the cause of anyone being “born again of the Spirit.” “Dead in trespasses and sin” humans are “mysteriously called and elect” to salvation (2Pet 1:10). Their names were “written in the Lamb’s book of life before the foundation of the world” (Rev 13:8), (i.e., before any human belief was possible).

The fact is that “The Lamb’s book of life” was written “before the foundation of the world.” Thus, God did not create anything so that sinful humans could “come in the unity of the faith.” God’s own inspired Words inform us in Isaiah 6:10 and Matthew 13:11ff that neither God nor Jesus intends for every human to “come in the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God.” And yet an omniscient God declared in Genesis 1:31 that God’s “command” to Isaiah was “very good” despite God’s “commands” contradicting your own wisdom deficient sectarian opinion.

The fact that God does not intend for all human to “come in the unity of the faith” has always been a “mystery” for wisdom deficient “pastor teachers” who have been religiously taught that 2Peter 3:9 is proof-text teaching that God is “not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance.” If a sovereign God really wanted every human to repent and be saved then that’s exactly the way it would happen.

However, that incorrect “understanding” of 2Peter 3:9 is literary nonsense simply because wisdom deficient “pastor teachers” are being taught to ignore that 2Peter was written “to them that have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Saviour Jesus Christ” (2Peter 1:1).

Peter’s 2nd Epistle teaches that God deliberately limits His “faithful promise” of “calling and election” to the “few who enter at the narrow gate” (Matthew 7:14) simply because “the Lord is not slack concerning his promise <to the called and elect> as some men <such as the Scoffers who are identified in 2Peter 3:4) count slackness but is longsuffering to us <who are called and elect>, not willing that any <of us who are called and elect> should perish, but that all <who are called and elect> should come to repentance” (this editing is derived from the literal context of 2Peter 3:9).

Incidentally, Matthew 7:13-23 of The Sermon on the Mount reports that “many who address Jesus as LORD” will be told to “depart from me, ye that work iniquity.” The incredible reality is that “many” Bible school trained “pastor teachers” will not be allowed to enter Heaven. That incredible reality contradicts “many wisdom deficient understandings” of that which a sovereign God inspired to be written.

Those same wisdom deficient Bible scholars incorrectly proof-text John 3:16 to read “For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that <any dead person who has been intellectually persuaded to> believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life.” That proof-text is literary nonsense simply because every human “dies and perishes” just as an immutable (i.e., unchangeable) God intended when God “predestined Adam and Eve to be sinners” who were both “appointed once to die, but after this the judgment” (Heb 9:27). That reality is specifically and intentionally confirmed in Ephesians 2:8-9 simply because the intellectual “work” of “believing in him” has never saved anyone. Salvation has always been “the gift of God. Not of works, lest any man who is dead in trespasses and sin should boast.” According to Merriam-Webster.com every “proof-text” is “a Scriptural passage adduced as proof for a theological doctrine, belief, or principle.” Thus, every “proof-text” is merely your own wisdom deficient attempt to “adduce” a hermeneutical “understanding” about that which an immutable God really intended to say if only He had stopped for a moment to think about what He said.

The Scriptural alternative to every wisdom deficient “proof-text” is to “Trust in the LORD with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and He shall direct thy paths” (Prov 3:5-6).

Conflict with rival sectarian opinions is proof that your own wisdom deficient sectarian methods for hermeneutically interpreting (i.e., altering) God’s immutable Words is evidence that you “lean unto your own understanding.”

Please meditate on the Scriptural command to “lean not unto thine own understanding” (Prov 3:5). Did “the LORD” really inspire Solomon to command every human including both me and you to “lean not unto thine own understanding”? Please acknowledge that interpretations are never the outcome of “rightly dividing the Word of Truth.” 

In the past I interpreted Proverbs 3:5 consistent with sectarian doctrinal beliefs. More recently I was led by God’s Spirit to “Study to shew myself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth” (2Tim 2:15). That kind of study led me to compose this document about Christian preaching that devalues Scripture. I finally discovered that as of AD60 God finally inspired His Purpose-For-Creation to be revealed in Ephesians 3:10.

That “Study” taught me to “Trust in the LORD with all my heart” about the reason WHY God created anything “to the intent that now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God” as described in Ephesians 3:10.

Please be aware that Ephesians 3:10 specifically ignores any so-called “Great Commission” for either establishing or maintaining “the church” simply because Jesus said in Matthew 16:18 that “He would build His church and the gates of hell would not prevail against it.” Please affirm that the “Great Commission” at the end of Matthew 28 was specifically directed to only “eleven” disciples so that Jesus could divinely command them to “Teach them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you.” Disciples other than the “eleven” were taught only “some things” rather than "all things."

It ought to be intuitively obvious that Matthew 28 has absolutely nothing to do with either “winning souls” (Proverbs 11:30) or establishing and maintaining “churches.” So, WHY do wisdom deficient “pastor teachers” teach otherwise? That reality contradicts the belief systems taught in Bible schools. The reality is that God’s Ephesians 3:10 Purpose-For-Creation completely ignores all temporary and disposable “dead in trespasses and sin” humans except as they assemble together into a conflicted sectarian “church” (i.e., an “ἐκκλησία”).

Some of the “born of the flesh” humans who assemble together into an “ἐκκλησία” were named in “the Lamb’s book of life before the foundation of the world” but the names of “ἐκκλησία” groupies have always been notably missing from “the Lamb’s book of life from the foundation of the world.”

This document is my analysis of God’s Purpose-For-Creation with respect to “the church” which “mysteriously” was not even hinted when “In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.”

WHY did God wait until AD60 to inspire the Apostle Paul to write the epistle to the Ephesians that describes God’s purpose for “the church”?

WHY didn’t God tell everyone about His purpose for “the church” when “in the beginning” God was creating everything including a “sinful” Adam and Eve who volitionally “lusted after” food that was provided by a God who is “good all the time; all the time, God is good”?

Nevertheless, it is intuitively obvious that God deliberately created temporary and disposable humans to be wisdom deficient. The religious leaders of “God’s chosen people” as well as Satan and his demons were denied knowledge about God’s Purpose-For-Creation because “none of the princes of this world knew: for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory” (1Corinthians 2:8). The “crucifixion of the Lord of glory” had always been God’s Purpose-For-Creation “from before the foundation of the world.”

The reality is that no one who claims to be “born again of the Spirit” would ever vote to “crucify the Lord of glory.” And yet the crucifixion of “the Lord of glory” is exactly what God intended when He created everything consistent with His Ephesians 3:10 Purpose Statement. That’s the reason WHY an omniscient God had to “hide the mystery” from everyone until after Jesus had been crucified and until after “the church” had been established by the Apostle Paul. Otherwise, “the Lord of glory” would have never been crucified simply because every God believer would have voted against it.

You and I and every other human who is “born again of the Spirit” (John 3:6) would have sabotaged God’s Purpose-For-Creation by voting against the crucifixion of “the Lord of glory.” Please meditate on that painful reality as you continue reading.
