Every Bible believer knows God is sovereign, omnipotent, and omniscient.

If those attributes literally characterize God, then why did a sovereign and omnipotent God create humans whom God omnisciently knew would “sin and come short of the glory of God” (Rom 3:23)? And yet an omniscient God included “a sinful Adam and Eve” in God’s Genesis 1:31 evaluation that “behold, everything was very good” exactly as He had planned.

An omniscient God knows every human is temporary and disposable due to being “appointed once to die, but after this the judgment” (Heb 9:27) so why did a sovereign omnipotent God plant “the tree of knowledge of good and evil in the midst of the garden” (Gen 2:9) and then threaten a temporary and disposable Adam and Eve by “commanding thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die” (Gen 2:17)? God knew that every human “dies” and yet God omnisciently evaluated the death and judgment of every temporary and disposable human as being “very good” exactly as He had planned. Why did God make that evaluation?

An omniscient God knew “the Lamb was slain from the foundation of the world” (Rev 13:8) before He made Adam and Eve. Thus, Adam and Eve were “predestined from the foundation of the world” to disobey God otherwise there would have been no reason for God to incarnate “the slain Lamb” to be “born of the flesh” as the son of a virgin named Mary. On the other hand, “all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are NOT written in the book of life” (Rev 13:8). That kind of universal worship could never happen without the “predestined disobedience” of both “redeemed and unredeemed Wheat and Tares” (Matt 13:24ff). Without exception literally everything was divinely created to be consistent with God’s Purpose-For-Creation.

An omniscient God also knew Cain would offer an unacceptable sacrifice while Abel’s sacrifice would be accepted. That same omniscient God knew that Cain would react to God’s evaluation of sacrificial methods by martyring Abel (Gen 4:1- 8). And yet God included the conflict between Cain and Abel as being “very good.”

An omniscient God knew the progeny of Abram and Sara’s grandson Jacob/Israel would eventually become known as “God’s chosen people” or “the children of Israel.” But an omniscient God also knew that Abram’s progeny with Hagar and Abram’s 2nd wife Keturah would be the mortal enemies of “God’s chosen people.” And yet an omniscient God evaluated that fact as being “very good.”

It is intuitive that before “in the beginning God created the heaven and the earth” an omniscient God already knew “which names were written in the Lamb’s book of life.” That’s why the Apostle Paul begins his divinely inspired Ephesians 1:4-6 words with the invocation “Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ according as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him. In love having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will.” In other words, in AD60 God “made known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure which he hath purposed (i.e., predestinated) in himself” (Eph 1:9 and 3:3).

An omniscient God knew that “everything was very good” despite knowing that bad stuff would continuously happen. Yet God’s assertion of “very good” was absolute Truth simply because a sovereign and omniscient God omnipotently predestinated His Words to be absolute Truth “from before the foundation of the world.” Nevertheless, wisdom deficient Bible scholars “lean unto their own understanding” to manufacture hermeneutically conflicted interpretations about that which an immutable God changed His mind to do and say.

An omniscient and omnipotent God sovereignly created everything including both figurative and literal sectarian “wars and rumors of war” to be fought by those who claim to believe “Thy Word is Truth.” Sectarian conflict is publicly observable in the form of Christian preaching that devalues Scripture. And yet sectarian “wars and rumors of war” are included in God’s omniscient declaration that “everything created by God was very good.”

The evidence is that a “good” God deliberately “predestinated” everything that has happened since creation including the crucifixion of “His only begotten Son.” However, if an omniscient God evaluates what has been created as being “very good” then God’s definition of “good” is different from the sectarian chants that assert “God is good all the time; all the time, God is good.” A “good” God created all the “bad” stuff like sickness and every other form of human suffering.

In Exodus 4:11 God asked Moses “Who hath made man's mouth? or who maketh the dumb, or deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? have not I the LORD?” God’s own Words assert that “a good” God deliberately created sickness, suffering, and all other human frailties. God has always used sin, sickness, and suffering to accomplish God’s Purpose-For-Creation. The reason an omniscient God declared “everything was very good” is because everything was created consistent with God’s Purpose-For-Creation. An omniscient God created universal conflict between sectarian belief systems and then declared “it was very good.”

Conflict fulfills God’s plan

It is philosophically intuitive that asking why anything was done is always more informative than knowing what has been done. For example, sentencing by judges in USA Courts of Law is typically based on why a crime was committed rather than based on what elected lawmakers legislated as the maximum penalty for that same crime. Thus, it is philosophically intuitive that Christian conflict fulfills God’s plan.

The philosophical nomenclature is written as “WHY > WHAT.”
