Students choose to attend a specific Bible school because they already believe the doctrines being taught at that school. Students may claim they are learning Biblically proficiency but the school they select always justifies conflicted doctrinal beliefs with a hermeneutical system of “leaning unto thine own understanding.” Exceptions are conceivable but I am not aware of any Bible school that deliberately exposits Scripture to discover the reason why “In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.”

Trusting Bible scholars to reveal God’s Purpose-For-Creation is a wasted exercise simply because their Biblical knowledge was attained by “leaning unto their own understanding” of conflicted theological opinions about what God really meant to say. The reality is that each Bible school prefers to teach the hermeneutical methods preferred by uniquely conflicted sectarian theologians.

The honorific of “Biblical scholar” is never a degree granted by a Bible school. That honorific merely indicates the preference of biased theologians who claim to be familiar with WHAT God has done. Bible scholars are each theologically opinionated when they cite proof-texts they manufactured to support their opinions. Despite what they may claim, every Bible school exists only by the financial approval of conflicted sectarian leaders. And God declares that conflict is “very good” because God’s Purpose-For-Creation requires conflict.

Bible schools teach the doctrines manufactured by conflicted theologians who wrote commentaries and study helps about that which God really meant to say even though a sovereign and omniscient God personally inspired every Word written in Scripture. Every Bible school ignores God command to “Trust in the LORD and He shall direct our paths.” Instead, every Bible school, every commentary, every study help teaches us to “lean unto your own understanding” by becoming proficient in sectarian hermeneutics which authorize the interpretation of doctrinally conflicted religious opinions.

Accordingly, Churches that hire Bible school graduates typically hear Christian preaching that devalues Scripture rather than hear contextual expositions of that which God literally said. The “understanding” of John 3:16 I grew up trusting was the outcome of conflicted Bible schools teaching students to “lean unto thine own understanding” about that which God really meant to say rather than teaching “Trust in the LORD with all thine heart” as commanded in Proverbs 3:5.

I later concluded my prior “trust” about the meaning of John 3:16 literally disobeyed God’s command in 1Timothy 6:20 “keep that which is committed to thy trust, avoiding profane and vain babblings, and oppositions of science falsely so called.” The English word “science” was translated from the Greek word “γνῶσις” (Strong’s G1108) “from <G1097> (ginosko); knowing (the act), i.e. (by implication) knowledge :- knowledge, science.” Thus, that verse instructs us to avoid “knowledge falsely so called” by “Trust in the LORD with all thine heart, and He shall direct thy paths.”

Scientific knowledge is repeatable else it is scientific speculation. But God’s creation cannot be repeated. Thus, the pervasiveness of scientific speculations about WHY God created anything” is the reason Paul warns religious leaders like Timothy in 1Timothy 6:20 and the Mars hill philosophers in Acts 17:18ff as well as all Bible school educated “pastor teachers” that “scientific theological speculations” are being idolatrously worshipped just as if those “speculations” are literal Truth. The mere existence of sectarian affiliations and denominations is proof that 1Timothy 6:20 is being disobeyed by modern Bible school educated “pastor teachers.”

In the past I trusted the “theological speculation” that God created the world so that humans who are “dead in trespass and sin” could make-a-decision to no longer “be dead” by volitionally choosing to have “everlasting life.” But, that kind of “speculation” ignores the fact that “dead” people are incapable of choosing anything simply because they are “dead.”

The reality is that humans who are “dead in trespasses and sin” must be “Spiritually born again” before God’s Truth can be known.

Every Bible school “speculation” is the outcome of manufactured hermeneutics which conflict with rival Bible school hermeneutics. Without exception, the outcome of every hermeneutical conflict is Christian preaching that devalues Scripture rather than Scriptural exposition.

Nevertheless, Biblical education is necessary despite any reliance on conflicted opinions because it is impossible to have correct opinions about that which God planned to do and say unless the entire context of God’s inspired Words are “rightly divided” from beginning to end.

Bible schools ought to teach Biblical proficiency rather than teach proficiency in sectarian “speculations.” But every Bible school teaches proficiency in hermeneutical systems that are used to manufacture conflicted “speculations” about WHY an omniscient God created a world where “God’s only begotten Son” was murdered by crucifixion.

Conflicted theological “speculations” de facto reject the Ephesians 4:11ff doctrine that God “gifts pastor teachers” so that church people will “come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ.”

As a matter of fact, every instance of sectarian and/or denominational preference (Baptist, Catholic, Evangelical Free, Holiness, Methodist, Presbyterian, etc.) is a theologically approved rejection of “the unity of the faith.” Without exception “pastor teachers” are trained to deliberately and purposefully reject “the unity of the faith.”

Admittedly, Bible school professors frequently teach a version of theologically manufactured opinions that partially agrees with God’s Purpose-For-Creation so that God is partially glorified. Bible school professors may even cite proof texts of Scripture which seem to verify those manufactured opinions. However, proof text opinions are never “rightly divided” expositions of “Truth.”

1Corinthians 2:14 argues against Bible school taught hermeneutics “But the natural man receives not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned.” Bible schools use hermeneutics as substitutes for “the Spirit of God.” “Spiritual discernment” is withheld from Bible scholars who egotistically “think of themself more highly than they ought to think” (Rom 12:3). And yet, an omniscient God declared that egotistical opinions are “very good” simply because that’s exactly the reason God Created Bible scholars.

Withholding “Spiritual discernment” was literally commanded by God when Isaiah was commissioned as a prophet in 6:9ff; “Make the heart of this people fat, and make their ears heavy, and shut their eyes; lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and convert, and be healed.” Jesus references Isaiah 6:9ff in Matthew 13:13ff when explaining correct doctrine to His disciples. Modern sectarian conflict between Bible school trained “pastor teachers” always without exception indicates a lack of “spiritual discernment.”

A modern example of “withheld Spiritual discernment” is the “theological speculation” that God requires “whosoever believeth in Him” to fulfil the so-called “Great Commission” as specifically commanded (Matthew 28:16ff) to “eleven disciples” who “went away into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them” as Apostles for fulfilling their God assigned mission.

The English word “commission” appears only once in KJV Bibles when Paul describes his trip to Damascus in Acts 26:12 as being “with authority and commission from the chief priests.” The English word “commission” was translated from Greek “ἐπιτροπή” (Strong’s G2011) “from <G2010> (epitrepo); permission, i.e. (by implication) full power :- commission.”

Thus, the so-called “Great Commission” is merely a theological concept manufactured by Bible scholars who without God’s permission have expanded the Matthew 28:20 “Apostolic command” to include all “disciples.”

Those Bible scholars are “liars” according to Romans 3:4.

The English word “command” in Matthew 28:20 is translated in multiple texts from the Greek word “ἐντέλλω” (Strong's 1781) “from <G1722> (en) and the base of <G5056> (telos); to enjoin :- (give) charge, (give).”

Thus, it seems that the so-called “Great Commission” is being erroneously taught as a literal “command” to “all disciples to teach all nations to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you.” It is erroneous simply because only the “eleven Apostles” had been taught “all things whatsoever I have commanded you.” Every other disciple of Jesus was taught only “some things” rather than “all things.” Thus, the “many” disciples of Jesus lack “Spiritual discernment” for teaching “the unity of the faith to all nations.”

It is utter nonsense to expect poorly trained “disciples” to teach “all things whatsoever I have commanded you.” So, I ask why any highly respected Biblical scholar would teach that “whosoever believeth in Him” is required to “go and teach all nations.” But that’s exactly what many Bible scholars teach from church pulpits.

God’s Words are inexplicably silent about the “churches” established by the “eleven apostles.” Instead, God’s own inspired Words emphasize the New Testament churches that were established by a Jewish Pharisee who was educationally highly credentialed and who “diligently” opposed Christianity until he was divinely “called and elect” on the road to Damascus by the resurrected Jesus Christ to become “the Apostle of the Gentiles” (Rom 11:2). The Christ-trained Apostle Paul (Gal 1:17-18) literally fulfilled God’s Ephesians 3:10 Purpose-For-Creation “To the intent that now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known BY THE CHURCH the manifold wisdom of God.” The apostle Paul rather than any of the “COMMISSIONED” disciples literally initiated “THE CHURCH.”

However, if God actually “intends” to use “THE CHURCH” to display “the manifold wisdom of God” to “the principalities and powers in heavenly places” then it is intuitive that God’s Purpose for the “the book of life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world” (Rev 13:8) was nothing more than preparation for Paul’s establishment of THE CHURCH. Paul’s epistles reveal each CHURCH established by Paul had problems that needed to be corrected. That’s because God’s Purpose-For-Creation is fulfilled by conflicted churches which are populated with “redeemed” as well as “unredeemed” people (i.e., with “tares and wheat”).

The churches established by Paul are pre-imaged in the Garden of Eden as “the tree of the knowledge of good and evil which God planted in the midst of the Garden” (Gen 2:9). In that regard I have literally heard a highly respected Bible scholar instruct both “redeemed” and “unredeemed” radio listeners to “make no mistake about it” that every Christian is “commanded” to fulfil the humanly titled “Great Commission” even though Matthew 28:16 reports only “eleven disciples” being appointed as Apostles. In other words, the very best Bible scholars (he had been the President of a major theological seminary) devalue “The Acts of the Apostles” by ignoring the 1:2 declaration “Until the day in which he was taken up, after that he through the Holy Ghost had given commandments unto the Apostles whom he had chosen.”

I confess I taught that same false “understanding” of God’s Words to my own young children as well as to AWANA children. Thus, I am ashamed to confess I share the guilt of judging the “oracles of God” by “God’s chosen people” whom the inspiration of God evaluated as “liars” in Romans 3:4.

The reality is that Bible scholars hermeneutically manufacture the need to “win souls” rather than exposit the Scriptural “command” that established every conflicted church which is being used by God to educate “the principalities and powers” in Ephesians 3:10. God’s Words teach that God and His “only begotten Son” are the only Ones having the responsibility to “seek and save that which is lost.” Romans 3 teaches “There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God. They are all gone out of the way. They are together become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good, no, not one.”

So, where do popular Purpose Driven book writers find the Biblical concept that teaches all Christians should be “Seeker sensitive?” God’s inspired Words in Romans 3 teach us that “Seekers” don’t even exist.

The term “proof-text” is defined in Mirriam-Webster.com as “a Scriptural passage adduced as proof for a theological doctrine, belief, or principle.” Thus, proof-texting 2Peter 3:9 is nothing more than a strongly held “theological doctrine, belief, or principle” about a theologically assumed need to “win souls.”

God’s Words never teach the need for “winning souls.” The term appears only as an obscure Old Testament reference in Proverbs 11:30. That reference is obviously obscure because the wisdom of “winning souls” is neither explained nor repeated in either Testament of Scripture. The concept of “soul winning” is incorrectly “proof-texted” by wisdom deficient academic scholars to manufacture a justification for generating an evangelistic application of Biblical counseling.

Those same scholars interpret John 3:16 to teach “all who are dead in trespasses and sin” can “come forward to the prayer room” to learn how to choose “everlasting life” during their “Hour of decision.” However, a contextual exposition of John’s Gospel, as well as Peter’s 2nd epistle, and Acts 16:31 teaches the exact opposite “understanding.”

Both “good and evil” interpretations of Scripture are the outcome of “leaning unto thine own understanding.” Neither “good” nor “evil” interpretations are ever the outcome of “Trusting the LORD with all your heart.” The reality is that a sovereign God intends His inspired Words to be exposited rather than interpreted.

Biblical proficiency always requires “Study to shew thyself approved unto God” (2Tim 2:15). The alternative to Biblical proficiency is the hermeneutical proficiency that without exception is taught in every sectarian Bible school.

In AD60 the Apostle Paul was inspired to write “to the saints which are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus.” In Ephesians 1:3-5 Paul introduces God’s inspired Words with the invocation “Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ: according as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him, in love having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself according to the good pleasure of his will.”

Within approximately that same time period, the Apostle John was inspired to write “to the seven churches which are in Asia” (i.e., the same churches that were established by the Apostle Paul rather that by any of the “eleven” disciples). John implied that “from the foundation of the world” God had already written “the Lamb’s book of life that predestined those who are to be adopted as children of Jesus Christ” (Rev 13:8).

The English word “church” is translated from the Greek word “ἐκκλησία” (Strong's G1577) “from a compound of <G1537> (ek) and a derivative of <G2564> (kaleo); a calling out, i.e. (concretely) a popular meeting, especially a religious congregation (Jewish synagogue, or Christian community of members on earth or saints in heaven or both) :- assembly, church.” And the English word “assembly” in Acts 19:39 was translated from the same G1577 to describe an unruly mob of angry rioters in Ephesus led by “Demetrius.”

Thus, Biblical usage of the English word “church” merely refers to an identifiable group of people. The point is that the Greek word “ἐκκλησία” in Ephesians 3:10 describes a group of people whom Jesus parabolically describes in Matthew 13:24ff as being populated by an admixture of “Tares and Wheat.” The term “Wheat and Tares” parabolically emulates “the tree of the knowledge of Good and Evil” that God planted in the Garden of Eden. That parabolic emulation would NOT have been possible if Eve had NOT “sinned by eating the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil.” It is an incredibly difficult concept for modern wisdom deficient Christians to “understand,” but Eve was “predestined to sin” by God’s Purpose-For-Creation as described in Ephesians 3:10.

Some Bible scholars teach that both Proverbs and the Parables of Jesus are merely wise examples of the behavior preferred by God. The invalid assumption is that Jesus was teaching “disciples” to be examples of righteous living in order that they could emulate an unattainable “Holiness unto the LORD.”

However, if Proverbs 3:5 is literally God’s inspired command to “Trust in the LORD with all our heart” then we must “Trust” that “from the foundation of the world” God had already “predestined” which humans would become “an adopted child of Jesus Christ according to the good pleasure of his will.” That kind of “predestination” includes blind people as well as seeing people, deaf people as well as hearing people, good people as well as evil people, etc. That kind of “predestination” could also include babies who die at birth before they have ever been either “good or evil.” The “predestination” of babies could result in millions of souls from “every tribe and nation” populating Heaven. “Predestination” is always by “the determinant counsel and foreknowledge of God.” God’s “predestination” is never an outcome of “believing in Him.” The conversion of a dedicated unbeliever on the road to Damascus is an example of God’s “predestined determinant counsel and foreknowledge” rather than an example of making-a-volitional-decision to “believe in Him.”

However, “pastor teachers” often chant that “God is good all the time. All the time, God is good.” “Pastor teachers” are typically taught that a “good God” loves everyone and really wants everyone to be saved even though a “good God” could have prevented Eve’s “sin” if that’s what a “good God” really wanted. The reality is that a “good God” literally “predestined” Eve to introduce “the knowledge of good and evil” into God’s created environment of time-and-space “to the intent that the principalities and powers in the heavenlies” can be educated by observing the distinction between “good and evil.”

Prior to “God creating the heaven and the earth” it was impossible for “the principalities and powers” to compare “good” vs “evil” simply because “evil and death” had never existed “in the heavenlies” where God resides.

The “Lord Jesus Christ” about whom Paul writes in Ephesians 1:3 was the same “Lamb that was slain from the foundation of the world” who only a few decades prior to AD60 had been divinely incarnated to become the “born of the flesh” son of a “sinful born of the flesh” human virgin named Mary (Luke 1:27). The incarnated “Lamb that was slain” inherited Mary’s “sinful” DNA including Mary’s gene that guaranteed “a propensity to sin and death.”

The Apostolic writings of John, Paul, and Peter have been unchanged for 2000 years. That’s more than enough time for everyone to “understand” that which God literally said so it is intuitively obvious that every Bible school has been divinely “predestined” to neglect teaching the reason why God delayed reporting the “mystery” until after Jesus had been crucified and after Jesus was resurrected and after “the New Testament Church” had been established to contain both “Tares and Wheat” and after “Jesus prepared the means for adopting the children” who were “predestined” in “the Lamb’s book of life.”

Without exception, Bible schools are “predestined” by “the determinant counsel and foreknowledge of God” to be doctrinally conflicted simply because doctrinal conflict between “CHURCHES” is an absolute requirement of God’s Purpose-For- Creation.

The inspired epistle to the Ephesians was written by the Apostle Paul “to the faithful in Christ Jesus” to reveal that all creation was “to the intent that now unto the principalities and powers in the heavenlies might be known by the CHURCH the manifold wisdom of God” (Eph 3:10). Please exposit the context of Ephesians 1:1 to 3:9 to affirm that I have “rightly divided the Word of Truth” rather than “leaned unto my own understanding.”

The Apostles John, Paul, and Peter were each inspired by God to write about “God’s purpose from the foundation of the world” but Paul’s inspiration adds the fact that “CHURCHES” which are populated with both “Wheat and Tares” were created “to the intent that the principalities and powers in the heavenlies” needed to learn “the knowledge of good and evil.” In other words, “the principalities and powers” need to learn the distinction between the “Wheat and Tares” (Matt 13:24ff) who populate every “local CHURCH.”

Bible schools never teach the reason why God delayed revealing God’s Purpose- For-Creation. That neglect has resulted in pervasive Christian preaching that devalues Scripture. Each Bible school neglect is a “predestined evil” in fulfillment of God’s Purpose-For-Creation as revealed in Ephesians 3:10.

“The mystery” of God’s Purpose-For-Creation was publicly revealed in AD60 when Paul was inspired to write the epistle to the Ephesians. That public revelation happened about 2000 years ago.

However, Bible schools continue to ignore and/or devalue “the mystery” that “the conflicted population of churches” (i.e., “the Wheat and Tares”) was “predestined” before “God created the heavens and the earth” (Gen1:1). The reality is that God’s Purpose-For-Creation “from before the foundation of the world” has always been “to the intent that now unto the principalities and powers in the heavenlies might be known the manifold wisdom of God” by observing the eternal status of conflicted church people.

Bible scholars and “pastor teachers” tend to egotistically “think of themself more highly than they ought to think” (Rom 12:3). Bible scholars are rarely if ever characterized by the Beatitudes in Matthew 5 (i.e., “poor in spirit,” “mourn,” “meek,” “persecuted.” etc.) Thus, Bible scholars tend to egotistically ignore or devalue the fact that absolutely nothing was created for the benefit of temporary and disposable humans who are “appointed once to die, but after that the judgement” (Heb 9:27).

The reality is that Adam, Eve, and each of their descendants, as well as “the tree of the knowledge of good and evil” (Gen 1:17) and “the serpent which the LORD God had made” (Gen 3:1) and “churches” (Eph 3:10) are each merely temporary and disposable teaching tools to be used by “the manifold wisdom of God” in the process of educating “the principalities and powers in the heavenlies.”

Nevertheless, an omniscient God declared in Genesis 1:31 the everything was created to be “very good” simply because is initiated God’s Purpose-For-Creation.

A specific example of temporary and disposable educational tools is reported in John 8:41ff where the incarnated “Lamb of God” reveals that the most religious God believers in all of God’s creation are “predestined as children of your father the devil” “to the intent that” God’s educational Purpose could be accomplished without well- intentioned and sincere religious resistance to God’s demonstration of the distinction between “good and evil.”

An additional example of temporary and disposable educational tools is reported in Matthew 7:21ff when Jesus (i.e., “the incarnated Lamb of God”) commands “many who address Jesus as LORD” to “depart from me, ye that work iniquity.” Scripture deliberately teaches that “many” church leaders are “predestined” to be judged with their “father the devil” despite religiously pretending that Jesus is their “LORD.”

The “mystery” revealed in AD60 is that “slaying the Lamb” and listing the names of disposable humans who were “predestined” to be included “in the Lamb’s book of life” are each nothing more than preparation for the Ephesians 3:10 “demonstration of the manifold wisdom of God to the principalities and powers in the heavenlies” by “making him” (i.e., “the incarnated Lamb”) “to be a little lower than the angels” (Ps 8:4-5; Heb 2:6- 7). The reality is that every human including “the incarnated Lamb of God” is “appointed once to die and after this the judgment” (Heb 9:27).

Nevertheless, Bible school trained religious experts ignore “the mystery” that God’s plan is to populate “churches with both Wheat and Tares to the intent that the principalities and powers who reside in the heavenlies” can learn the distinction between “Good and Evil.” That has always been God’s Purpose-For-Creation “from before the foundation of the world” before “the beginning of time.”

Bible school trained religious leaders chant that “God is good all the time; all the time God is good” even though John 8:44 teaches “many” of those same religious leaders are “predestined to die as children of the god of this world” and despite Matthew 7:22-23 teaching that “many” religious leaders will claim “Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works?” to which Jesus will respond “depart from me, I never knew you.”

Bible scholars teach everything was “very good” (Gen 1:31) until “the serpent which the LORD God had made” (Gen 3:1) temped Eve to sin. In other words, Bible scholars believe the nonsense that “the foreknowledge of an immutable God” reacted to “Eve’s sin” rather than “predestined Eve’s sin.”

However, 1Corthians 1:25 teaches “the foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the weakness of God is stronger than men.” Scripture teaches that “many of the wisest and best educated Bible scholars” have been “predestined” to reside in Hell eternally with Satin and his demons. Although, “a few of the best educated Bible scholars” are “predestined” to be “adopted as children of Jesus Christ according to the good pleasure of his will.”

The problem with Biblical education

I observe modern Bible school trained religious leaders attempting to force a “wise and strong” God whom they believe to be “good all the time” to react to sin by requiring “whosoever” to “believeth in Him” before God’s “promised gift of everlasting life” can be gifted by a sovereignly omnipotent and immutable God who always does whatever He wants to do.

In other words, modern Bible school trained religious leaders “lean unto their own understanding” to manufacture that which God really meant to say.

Thus, the problem with Biblical education is that every Bible school is staffed with academically trained Bible scholars who have been taught to “lean unto their own understanding” about that which God really meant to say rather than being taught to “trust in the LORD with all your heart and lean not unto your own understanding.” That kind of academic training always results in Christian preaching that devalues Scripture as well as results in a dedicated belief in conflicted sectarian belief systems.

The Biblical concept of “predestination” is observed to be denied rather than exposited by “many” Bible school trained religious leaders. That kind of denial of God’s literally inspired Words is always publicly observable in the form of Christian preaching that devalues Scripture.

You may think this book is repetitive just to try to make a point. I acknowledge you are correct simply because I continuously observe a preference for theological commentaries and study helps that encourage “leaning unto your own understanding” about the literal meaning of Scripture.

I sincerely believe repetition and over-kill is the only way to highlight or emphasize those observations. I sincerely intend doctrinal error by wisdom deficient Bible scholars to be refuted in this book.

My prayer is that every Bible scholar will “Trust in the LORD with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding” so that they will “In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths.” Amen.

The alternative to “Trust in the LORD” has always been to trust the opinions of conflicted Bible scholars who teach mere speculations about that which God really meant to say. However, Partial Truth is never Literal Truth. The outcome of partial Truth is always Christian preaching that devalues Scripture despite who is partially right and who is completely wrong.

My caveat

Ecclesiastical conflict between Bible scholars motivated me to write this book about Christian preaching that devalues Scripture. The unfortunate reality is that Bible scholars are Theologically proficient rather than proficient in Biblical knowledge. Church pulpits are dedicated to teaching the opinions of conflicted theologians rather than dedicated to expositing the contextual Words inspired by God.

The inexplicable reality is that God has “mysteriously predestined” Bible scholars to be conflicted. However, this book claims to reveal “the mystery” which “the determinant counsel and foreknowledge of God” had “predestined” to be hidden “from before the foundation of the world.” Accordingly, I freely admit that I struggle with the possibility that God does not want this book to be published simply because that “mystery” continues to pervasively describe currently conflicted pulpit preaching.

The fact that the “the mystery” was “predestined” to be hidden “from before the foundation of the world” is evidence that God didn’t want “the mystery” to be publicly revealed even though in AD60 God inexplicably inspired the Apostle Paul to reveal “the mystery.” Bible scholars and “pastor teachers” continue to be unaware that “the mystery” has been revealed. Even my own family and friends resist the message of this book. My own family and friends tend to be dedicated to the historic doctrines being taught by their preferred set of conflicted Bible scholars. Many of my own family and friends were educated at the best Bible schools in the USA. Some even have advanced academic degrees in religious studies.

If God hid “the mystery” for thousands of years prior to AD60 then perhaps I am being presumptive to reveal “the mystery” in this book?

That question really bothers me because God’s Purpose-For-Creation is clearly dependent on the inherent conflict between the “Wheat and Tares” who populate every “church.” The conflict between “Good and Evil” is the reality being “mysteriously” demonstrated to “the principalities and powers in the heavenlies.” Thus, merely asking the question may be wrong.

The only reason I continue writing this book is that current events seem to suggest the predicted 2nd coming of the resurrected Jesus Christ will occur in my lifetime. My humble opinion is that God is emphasizing His Purpose-For-Creation once again simply because the time scheduled for the 2nd coming is nigh.

My “faith and trust” is that my humble recognition of God’s Purpose-For-Creation is linguistically confirmed by quoting God’s own inspired Words rather than by “leaning unto my own understanding” about the conflicted speculations of Biblically trained theologians.

Nevertheless, I admit I continue to be concerned.
