This book is dedicated to my wife, family, and friends because they sincerely want to believe Bible school taught “pastor teachers” correctly interpret Scripture. However, without exception, “pastor teachers” are being taught by Bible school professors to hermeneutically interpret Scripture in a way that conflicts with the hermeneutics taught by rival Bible school professors. That also seems to explain why pulpit messages tend to be Christian preaching that devalues Scripture.

Bible school taught “pastor teachers” homiletically teach church attendees to “lean unto hermeneutical understandings written by God believing but conflicted theologians” rather than “lean not unto your own understanding” as Proverbs 3:5 commands. Thus, typical church attendees hear only Christian preaching that devalues Scripture.

My wife and I were each reared to believe the doctrines taught at conservative Bible schools. Thus, we taught our children to believe those same doctrines even though those doctrines conflict with the doctrines taught by rival Bible schools. The spouses of our children also believe doctrines taught at conflicted Bible schools. Our family is characterized by faith in God as defined by a conflicted hermeneutical understanding of the Christian Faith. Each in our family is involved in church ministries that hermeneutically conflict with other church ministries while simultaneously claiming to “Trust in the LORD with all thine heart.”

God’s Words that were inspired to be written in Ephesians 3:3-9 report that God deliberately “hid” His Purpose-For-Creation as a “mystery” before “In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.” That reality is the basis for this book that questions why Bible school taught belief systems always result in sectarian conflict? This book attempts to answer that “mysterious” question.

It seems the Spiritual leaders of every Bible school disobey God’s inspired Words by “leaning unto their own understanding about that which God really meant to say” rather than “Trusting in the LORD with all thine heart such that God will direct thy path.” That also seems to explain the reason why “In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.” That “mystery” is the basis for this book titled “Christian preaching that devalues Scripture.” It is a philosophical axiom that knowing WHY anything happens is always more instructive than knowing WHAT may have been historically reported as happening.
